# Azure Lab Setup

This day has come - we are deploying a cloud infrastructure! In this task you will deploy your first Azure Virtual Machine. 

When you have the Virtual Machine deployed, you also can deploy to it one of the web sites you were working with in previous tasks - this way anyone on the Internet will be able to visit it. 

## How to complete tasks in this module 

Tasks in this module are relying on 2 PowerShell scripts: 

- `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` generates the task "artifacts" and uploads them to cloud storage. An "artifact" is evidence of a task completed by you. Each task will have its own script, which will gather the required artifacts. The script also adds a link to the generated artifact in the `artifacts.json` file in this repository — make sure to commit changes to this file after you run the script. 
- `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` validates the artifacts generated by the first script. It loads information about the task artifacts from the `artifacts.json` file.

Here is how to complete tasks in this module:

1. Clone task repository

2. Make sure you completed steps, described in the Prerequisites section

3. Complete the task, described in the Requirements section 

4. Run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` to generate task artifacts. Script will update the file `artifacts.json` in this repo. 

5. Run `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` to test yourself. If tests are failing - follow the recomendation from the test script error message to fix or re-deploy your infrastructure. When you will be ready to test yourself again - **re-generate the artifacts** (step 4) and re-run tests again. 

6. When all tests will pass - commit your changes and submit the solution for a review. 

## Prerequisites

Before completing any task in the module, make sure that you followed all the steps described in the **Environment Setup** topic, in particular: 

1. Ensure you have an [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account and subscription.

2. Create a resource group called *"mate-resources"* in the Azure subscription.

3. In the *"mate-resources"* resource group, create a storage account (any name) and a *"task-artifacts"* container.

4. Install [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4) on your computer. All tasks in this module use Powershell 7. To run it in the terminal, execute the following command: 
    ```
    pwsh
    ```

5. Install [Azure module for PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azure-powershell?view=azps-11.3.0): 
    ```
    Install-Module -Name Az -Repository PSGallery -Force
    ```
If you are a Windows user, before running this command, please also run the following: 
    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
    ```

6. Log in to your Azure account using PowerShell:
    ```
    Connect-AzAccount -TenantId <your Microsoft Entra ID tenant id>
    ```

## Requirements

In this task, you need to perform the following steps: 

1. Create a new resource group `mate-azure-task-2`

2. Create a Linux Virtual Machine in the resource group from the previous step: 
    
    - Use any allowed VM name
    - Use `UK South` Azure region
    - Set avalibility option to `No infrastructure redundancy`
    - Use `Standard`security type 
    - Use `Ubuntu Server 22.04` as an operating system (publisher - `Cannonical`)
    - Use `B1s` VM size 
    - Use SSH key authentification (use your own SSH key)
    - Configure the VM to allow SSH access
    - Make sure VM is deployed **without auto-generated public IP**

3. Create and attach public IP with SKU 'Basic'. Create a DNS label for the public IP. 

4. Run artifacts generation script `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1`

5. Test yourself using the script `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`

6. Sumbit the solution 

7. Stop the VM when not in use, keep the VM for next tasks 
